
=head1 NAME

Term::HiliteDiff - Highlights differences in text with ANSI escape codes

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Term::HiliteDiff prints or formats your input with the differences
highlighted. You can choose to update your display in place or let
things scroll past like following a log.

You can choose to parse things for Term::HiliteDiff or let it just do
a plain character-by-character diff. My favorites are doing diffs on
CSV or tab delimited data.

This module highlights differences between subsequent lines/records of
text. It was directly inspired by the --difference mode provided by
the watch(1) program on Linux.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Prints a tab delimited file, with differences highlighted
    use Term::HiliteDiff 'hilite_diff';
    while ( <STDIN> ) {
        hilite_diff( [ split /\t/ ] );
    }

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

The C<< Term::HiliteDiff->new >> constructor returns a new
L<Term::HiliteDiff::_obj> object. It responds to the methods C<<
->watch >> and C<< ->hilite_diff >>.

=over 

=item hilite_diff( ARRAY REFERENCE )

=item hilite_diff( STRING, ... )

The C<hilite_diff> function compares the previous input with the
current input and prints the new input on a new line with any
differences highlited.

This function accepts either a single array reference or a list of
strings. The difference is whether your input will be parsed or
not. There is no parsing with an array reference. Your strings are
split into characters if you pass in a list of strings.

  while (<STDIN>) {
      print hilite_diff( $_ );
  }

In both cases the output joining the contents of your array reference
or the list of strings by the C<$,> variable.

  # Tab delimited input
  $, = "\t";
  while (<STDIN>) {
      print hilite_diff( [ split /$,/ ] );
  }

If this function is called in void context, the result will be printed
to the currently selected filehandle. In list or scalar context the
resultant string will just be returned.

Example 1:

  # prints differences to STDERR
  while (<STDIN>) {
      print STDERR hilite_diff( $_ );
  }

Example 2:

  # prints differences to the default handle
  while (<STDIN>) {
      hilite_diff( $_ );
  }

=item watch( ARRAY REFERENCE )

=item watch( STRING, ... )

This function operates just like C<hilite_diff> with the exception
that it attempts to always write its output over the same portion of
screen real estate. This allows you to have output that continually
refreshes in place.

I wrote this variant of C<hilite_diff> so I could follow the changes
inside a repeating data structure.

  # Watch 'a' increment inside the structure.
  use Data::Dumper 'Dumper';
  my @array = ( 1, 'a', 3 );
  while ( 1 ) {
      ++ $array[1]
      watch( Dumper( \ @array ) );
  }

=head1 AUTOMATIC EXPORTS

The C<watch> and C<hilite_diff> functions are exported when you've
used this module from the command line.

  perl -MTerm::HiliteDiff -pe '$_ = hilite_diff( $_ )'

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

strict, vars, Exporter, Algorithm::Diff, Test::More, ExtUtils::MakeMaker

=head1 SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Term::HiliteDiff

You can also look for information at:

=over

=item RT, CPAN's request tracker L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Term-HiliteDiff>

=item AnnoCPAN, Annotated CPAN documentation L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Term-HiliteDiff>

=item CPAN Ratings L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Term-HiliteDiff>

=item Search CPAN L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Term-HiliteDiff>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Josh ben Jore, C<< <jjore@cpan.org> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2006,2009 Joshua ben Jore.

This program is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, including but not
limited to the implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose.

The program is free software.  You may distribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation (either version 2 or any later version) and
the Perl Artistic License as published by O'Reilly Media, Inc.  Please
open the files named Copying and Artistic for a copy of these
licenses.

=begin emacs

## Local Variables:
## mode: pod
## mode: auto-fill
## End:

=end emacs

